colophon.md, before:

---
layout: generic
title: Colophon
description: Giving credit to the people and tools that made this website possible.
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

A colophon is a short section you can find at the back of some books, giving some details about the creation of the book. I quite like making these for some of my websites, as a little exercise in being thankful and giving some link love to the open source projects and individual contributors that helped make it happen.

## Code

This website was built by me, beeps. The code for this site is [open source and available on GitHub](https://github.com/querkmachine/beeps.website).

I use the static site generator [Eleventy](http://11ty.dev) with the following plugins: [eleventy-img](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-img) and [eleventy-plugin-rss](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-rss).

Certain aspects of the code, in particular the CSS architectural style, is cribbed from [GOV.UK Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend)—a project I now work on!—which itself is a modified version of [ITCSS](https://itcss.io). [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [PostCSS](https://postcss.org) are used for CSS generation.

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is used to keep the code beautiful.

I use Panic's [Nova](http://nova.app) as my code editor, accompanied by [iTerm](https://iterm2.com/) and [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/).

Hat tips to the following folks for contributing something that currently exists in the site's code: [Bernard Nijenhuis](https://bnijenhuis.nl/notes/2021-05-10-automatically-generate-open-graph-images-in-eleventy/) and [Rob Hudson](https://rob.cogit8.org/posts/2020-10-28-simple-11ty-cache-busting/).

This website is hosted by [Opalstack](http://opalstack.com/), who have obscenely good customer support.

## Design

Type is set in [Darkmode](https://www.daltonmaag.com/library/darkmode) and [Darkmode Mono](https://www.daltonmaag.com/library/darkmode-mono), both created by [Dalton Maag](https://www.daltonmaag.com), and served from [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/).

## Content

Words are my own, unless otherwise specified.

The robot bats are [my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}), designed with help from my friend [Samael](https://twitter.com/Samael101). The bats were illustrated by myself, based on the art style of the game _[Super Animal Royale](https://animalroyale.com)_ by [Pixile Studios](https://pixilestudios.com), which is really fun.

Commit message:

:bento: Swap out nebula photo

colophon.md, after:

---
layout: generic
title: Colophon
description: Giving credit to the people and tools that made this website possible.
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

A colophon is a short section you can find at the back of some books, giving some details about the creation of the book. I quite like making these for some of my websites, as a little exercise in being thankful and giving some link love to the open source projects and individual contributors that helped make it happen.

## Code

This website was built by me, beeps. The code for this site is [open source and available on GitHub](https://github.com/querkmachine/beeps.website).

I use the static site generator [Eleventy](http://11ty.dev) with the following plugins: [eleventy-img](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-img) and [eleventy-plugin-rss](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-rss).

Certain aspects of the code, in particular the CSS architectural style, is cribbed from [GOV.UK Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend)—a project I now work on!—which itself is a modified version of [ITCSS](https://itcss.io). [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [PostCSS](https://postcss.org) are used for CSS generation.

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is used to keep the code beautiful.

I use Panic's [Nova](http://nova.app) as my code editor, accompanied by [iTerm](https://iterm2.com/) and [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/).

Hat tips to the following folks for contributing something that currently exists in the site's code: [Bernard Nijenhuis](https://bnijenhuis.nl/notes/2021-05-10-automatically-generate-open-graph-images-in-eleventy/) and [Rob Hudson](https://rob.cogit8.org/posts/2020-10-28-simple-11ty-cache-busting/).

This website is hosted by [Opalstack](http://opalstack.com/), who have obscenely good customer support.

## Design

Type is set in [Darkmode](https://www.daltonmaag.com/library/darkmode) and [Darkmode Mono](https://www.daltonmaag.com/library/darkmode-mono), both created by [Dalton Maag](https://www.daltonmaag.com), and served from [Adobe Fonts](https://fonts.adobe.com/).

The nebula imagery is of [the Eagle Nebula (M16)](https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:M016.jpg), photographed by "Starhopper" and made available under a Creative Commons BY-SA 4.0 licence.

## Content

Words are my own, unless otherwise specified.

The robot bats are [my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}), designed with help from my friend [Samael](https://twitter.com/Samael101). The bats were illustrated by myself, based on the art style of the game _[Super Animal Royale](https://animalroyale.com)_ by [Pixile Studios](https://pixilestudios.com), which is really fun.
