src/colophon.md, before:

---
layout: generic.njk
title: Colophon
metadata:
  description: Giving credit to the people and tools that made this website possible.
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

A colophon is a short section you can find at the back of some books, giving some details about the creation of the book. I quite like making these for some of my websites, as a little exercise in being thankful and giving some link love to the open source projects and individual contributors that helped make it happen.

## Code

This website was built by me, beeps. The code for this site is [open source and available on GitHub](https://github.com/querkmachine/beeps.website).

I use the static site generator [Eleventy](http://11ty.dev) with the following plugins:

- [eleventy-img](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-img)
- [eleventy-plugin-directory-output](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-directory-output)
- [eleventy-plugin-rss](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-rss)
- [eleventy-plugin-toc](https://github.com/jdsteinbach/eleventy-plugin-toc)

Markdown content is parsed by [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) with the [markdown-it-anchor](https://github.com/valeriangalliat/markdown-it-anchor) plugin.

Code is highlighted using [highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) using a custom theme based on [Nova](http://nova.app)'s 'Neon' theme.

Certain aspects of the code, in particular the CSS architectural style, is cribbed from [GOV.UK Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend)—a project I now work on!—which itself is a modified version of [ITCSS](https://itcss.io). [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [PostCSS](https://postcss.org) are used for CSS generation.

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is used to keep the code beautiful.

I use Panic's [Nova](http://nova.app) as my code editor, accompanied by [iTerm](https://iterm2.com/) and [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/).

Hat tips to the following folks for contributing something that currently exists in the site's code: [Bernard Nijenhuis](https://bnijenhuis.nl/notes/2021-05-10-automatically-generate-open-graph-images-in-eleventy/), [Brian Mitchell](https://brianm.me/posts/eleventy-redirect-from/), [Juneum](https://juneum.com/articles/eleventy-drafts/), [Rob Hudson](https://rob.cogit8.org/posts/2020-10-28-simple-11ty-cache-busting/) and [Stefan Baumgartner](https://fettblog.eu/11ty-automatic-twitter-cards/).

This website is hosted by [Opalstack](http://opalstack.com/), who have obscenely good customer support.

## Design

Type is set in [Space Grotesk](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Space+Grotesk) designed by [Florian Karsten](https://floriankarsten.com/) and [Space Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Space+Mono) designed by [Colophon Foundry](https://www.colophon-foundry.org/).

## Content

Words and images are my own, unless otherwise specified.

This website also implements [fursona schema](https://github.com/theHedgehog0/fursona-schema), just in case it wasn't furry enough.

### Characters

{% character character="ash", variant="happy" %}
Ash the amphimorpho [is also my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}). Ash's headshots were illustrated by [Dzuk](https://dzuk.zone/).
{% endcharacter %}

{% character character="emy", variant="wave" %}
Emy the robot bat is [my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}), designed with help from my friend [Samael](https://samaelbretondragon.carrd.co/).

Illustrations are by me, based on the art style of the game _[Super Animal Royale](https://animalroyale.com)_ by [Pixile Studios](https://pixilestudios.com), which is really fun.
{% endcharacter %}

Commit message:

:pencil2: Add tools and services section to colophon

src/colophon.md, after:

---
layout: generic.njk
title: Colophon
metadata:
  description: Giving credit to the people and tools that made this website possible.
eleventyExcludeFromCollections: true
---

A colophon is a short section you can find at the back of some books, giving some details about the creation of the book. I quite like making these for some of my websites, as a little exercise in being thankful and giving some link love to the open source projects and individual contributors that helped make it happen.

## Code

This website was built by me, beeps. The code for this site is [open source and available on GitHub](https://github.com/querkmachine/beeps.website).

I use the static site generator [Eleventy](http://11ty.dev) with the following plugins:

- [eleventy-img](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-img)
- [eleventy-plugin-directory-output](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-directory-output)
- [eleventy-plugin-rss](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy-plugin-rss)
- [eleventy-plugin-toc](https://github.com/jdsteinbach/eleventy-plugin-toc)

Markdown content is parsed by [markdown-it](https://github.com/markdown-it/markdown-it) with the [markdown-it-anchor](https://github.com/valeriangalliat/markdown-it-anchor) plugin.

Code is highlighted using [highlight.js](https://highlightjs.org/) using a custom theme based on [Nova](http://nova.app)'s 'Neon' theme.

Certain aspects of the code, in particular the CSS architectural style, is cribbed from [GOV.UK Frontend](https://github.com/alphagov/govuk-frontend)—a project I now work on!—which itself is a modified version of [ITCSS](https://itcss.io). [Sass](https://sass-lang.com/) and [PostCSS](https://postcss.org) are used for CSS generation.

[Prettier](https://prettier.io/) is used to keep the code beautiful.

Hat tips to the following folks for contributing something that currently exists in the site's code: [Bernard Nijenhuis](https://bnijenhuis.nl/notes/2021-05-10-automatically-generate-open-graph-images-in-eleventy/), [Brian Mitchell](https://brianm.me/posts/eleventy-redirect-from/), [Juneum](https://juneum.com/articles/eleventy-drafts/), [Rob Hudson](https://rob.cogit8.org/posts/2020-10-28-simple-11ty-cache-busting/) and [Stefan Baumgartner](https://fettblog.eu/11ty-automatic-twitter-cards/).

## Design

Type is set in [Space Grotesk](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Space+Grotesk) designed by [Florian Karsten](https://floriankarsten.com/) and [Space Mono](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Space+Mono) designed by [Colophon Foundry](https://www.colophon-foundry.org/).

## Tools and services

I use Panic's [Nova](http://nova.app) as my code editor of choice, accompanied by [iTerm](https://iterm2.com/), [Oh My Zsh](https://ohmyz.sh/) and the [Powerlevel10k theme](https://github.com/romkatv/powerlevel10k).

This website is hosted by [Opalstack](http://opalstack.com/), who have obscenely good customer support.

Domain names (of which I have too many) are managed by [Namecheap](https://www.namecheap.com/) and [Glauca Digital](https://glauca.digital/).

## Content

Words and images are my own, unless otherwise specified.

This website also implements [fursona schema](https://github.com/theHedgehog0/fursona-schema), just in case it wasn't furry enough.

### Characters

{% character character="ash", variant="happy" %}
Ash the amphimorpho [is also my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}). Ash's headshots were illustrated by [Dzuk](https://dzuk.zone/).
{% endcharacter %}

{% character character="emy", variant="wave" %}
Emy the robot bat is [my own original character]({{ '/about/furry/' | url }}), designed with help from my friend [Samael](https://samaelbretondragon.carrd.co/).

Illustrations are by me, based on the art style of the game _[Super Animal Royale](https://animalroyale.com)_ by [Pixile Studios](https://pixilestudios.com), which is really fun.
{% endcharacter %}
